Now that we had a look at the basics about Nokia's, what we can do with it, and now that we even used
it, let me walk you through the content of this course and explain what's in the course and where you
can find what we're almost done getting started.
And the next module, I will give you a brief JavaScript refresher just to make sure we're all on the
same page regarding the core JavaScript syntax, but more importantly about some next gen JavaScript
features which will use in the course.
Basic JavaScript knowledge is assumed and will not be taught in that module, but if you just need a
refresher, some additional information or this next gen JavaScript knowledge, then this is a module
you should take.
Otherwise it's optional.
Now, after this refresher or immediately after this module, if you don't need a refresher, we'll
dive into the Node.js basics, how it generally works, how we can work with streams of data and some
core Node.js modules.
So really the nitty gritty details you need to know about the the language, so to say.
And we'll then dive into efficiently developing with Node.js, how you can debug your code, handle
errors and so on.
Now thereafter we'll dive into express JS the most popular framework you can use for Node.js.
I'll explain why we use it and why we still in its heart use Node.js, why we still learn about Node.js,
even though we use express to us.
Because using it makes sense, it makes things easier.
You will use it if you are working with no trace.
But still, of course we still use Node.js with all of that.
Now thereafter we'll dive into templating engines that are basically some tools you could say that allow
you to generate HTML pages on the server with dynamic content encoded in them.
And that is how you can return different pages or pages with different content back to your users.
So that will be an important module.
Now thereafter we'll dive into the model view controller pattern, what it is and why we use it, and
of course how we use it.
And we'll then have a look at some advanced routing concepts.
Routing is something we'll also learn in the Express JS module and we'll dive deeper into the models
of the model view controller pattern.
Now after we're done with that, it's time to dive into databases and we'll start by connecting our
node application with a SQL database.
My SQL, to be precise.
As a next step, we'll dive deeper into that and use a package that makes working with SQL databases
easier.
Scalise, now in after having seen SQL, will continue with no SQL and see how we would use that.
And we'll use Mongoose there to also make working with that easier and will then stick to no SQL for
the rest of the course.
But you'll thoroughly learn both SQL and no SQL.
Now after this, we'll dive into sessions and cookies, what it is, why you use it, and how you use
it.
We'll have a look at authentication.
So how we can make sure that users can sign up and sign in with our application.
We'll dive into sending emails, how that would work.
How can we auto generate emails when a user signs up, for example, we'll also dive into advanced authentication
features and also authorization, which means that, for example, only a user who created a product
can edit or delete.
It will then have a look at user input validation, which is a crucial part in any web application,
because you want to make sure that the data your users enter into your forms is correct and valid,
and you'll learn how you can do that efficiently in this module.
And we'll then dive into error handling because errors will happen, for example, if the user enters
wrong input.
And I will show you how you can handle different kinds of errors in an elegant way.
Now thereafter, we'll dive into something important, file up and downloads.
How can you handle these?
How can you write code that takes incoming files, stores them and is able to return files?
I'll also show you how you can automatically generate PDF documents on the server in this module.
Well then have a look at pagination so how we can return our data in chunks instead of all the data
at once, which is not ideal for your bandwidth.
We'll thereafter have a look at async request and I'll explain what that is and how we can handle it
with no charges.
And we'll then dive into payments.
How can we accept payments through a service called Stripe?
JS Obviously something will need in any shop we build.
And thereafter we'll dive into a different kind of application you can build with no trace.
We'll dive into rest APIs.
And one module does not sound like a lot of content on this very important technology, but actually
I got two modules on that and we'll also dive into file uploads and rest APIs, authentication, pagination
and all that stuff.
And additionally, these modules will build up on the entire modules before that because you will learn
that the rest API does not differ that much from a normal node application, and I will show you in
detail which knowledge you still need and how you need to change some things.
Not that many actually, to turn an existing application into a rest API now.
And once we're done with that, I will dive into a more modern JavaScript feature async await and how
you can use that in your node application and we'll dive into web sockets and socket.
I o this is a technology or a set of technologies that allows you to add real time functionalities to
your app.
So for example, if one user sends a message and you instantly want to notify another user, you can
use web sockets for that.
And I will show how it works in this module.
After this module, we'll dive into a different kind of APIs.
We had a look at rest APIs.
We'll then have a look at GraphQL APIs.
GraphQL is a very modern and popular way of building APIs.
It has some advantages over rest APIs, also some disadvantages.
And I will dive into GraphQL and how it differs from rest APIs in this module, and I will show you
how to build a GraphQL API from scratch with no charges.
And this will be quite a big module, even though it's only one block on this slide.
Now thereafter we'll have a look at deployment.
How can you take your application?
You build all your node code you build, how can you take that and move it to a real server in the web
and ensure that it runs there?
This will be shown there.
There.
I'll also dive into things like setting up SSL encryption and once we're done with that, I'll have
a short module on Node JS functionalities beyond creating web servers with it because you can use it
for other things too, as I will mention there.
And then I also got a couple of bonus modules which I actually added after this course was initially
released because I'm keeping this course updated and I added sections on Node.js with TypeScript and
also sections on Deano, which is a Node.js alternative by the original creator of Node.
And whilst Node is of course the big important JavaScript runtime which is there to stay, Deno could
be a nice alternative you also might want to look into and therefore I got some introductory modules
at the end of this course as well.
Well, and thereafter we're going to conclude this with a round up and with some possible next steps
you could take.
And therefore I'd say this course is packed with content.
Let's conclude this first getting started module and let's dive in.